PROBLEM STATEMENT- Suppose Santa Claus sleeps in his shop at the North Pole and can only be wakened by either all nine reindeer being back from their vacation in the South Pacific or some of the elves having difficulties making toys; to allow Santa to get some sleep, the elves can only wake him when three have problems. When three elves are having their problems solved, any other elves wishing to visit Santa must wait for those elves to return. If Santa wakes up to find three elves waiting at his shop’s door, along with the last reindeer returning from the tropics, Santa has decided that the elves can wait until after Christmas because it is more important to get his sleigh ready. (It is assumed that the reindeer do not want to leave the tropics, so they stay there until the last moment.) The previous reindeer to arrive must get Santa while the others wait in a warming hut before being harnessed to the sleigh.

GOAL - The goal of the problem is to make sure that Santa Claus can deliver toys by using reindeer and helping elves when needed in a synchronized way so that there are no race conditions, deadlocks, or starvation.
ABOUT THE CODE - This program simulates the behavior of Santa Claus, elves, and reindeer during Christmas time. It uses thread library to create threads and semaphores to synchronize and control the behavior of the threads.There are three threads: Santa Claus, elves, and reindeer. The Santa Claus thread is created once and continues until the program ends. Elf and reindeer threads are created multiple times according to the constants defined at the beginning of the program.Santa Claus thread waits on a semaphore until it is signaled by a group of 3 elves or nine reindeer. When signaled by elves, Santa Claus helps them with their tasks. When signaled by the reindeer, Santa Claus prepares his sleigh and delivers the toys.Elf threads have a certain probability of asking for help from Santa Claus. When they do, they increment a counter and wait on a semaphore until there are 3 of them. Then they signal Santa Claus to help or signal each other if they are insufficient. They work for a while before finishing their task.Reindeer threads wait on a semaphore until Santa Claus signals them. When there are 9 of them, Santa Claus prepares his sleigh and delivers the toys.


SOLUTION - Semaphores  Sem_santa, Sem_reindeer, and Sem_elve  are defined to synchronize the activities of Santa, reindeer, and elves, respectively. A mutex is defined to ensure that shared variables are accessed atomically &  Three functions are defined to initialize the semaphores, Create(), _wait(), and _signal(). Three functions are defined for the three types of threads – Santa Claus (), Elf(), and Reindeer(). When the Santa thread wakes up and finds that both the reindeer and elves need attention, it processes the requests of the reindeer first. Similarly, when the elves request Santa's help, Santa helps the elves only after attending to the requests of the reindeer. when elves request Santa's help, they wait on a semaphore. Santa is signaled if three elves are waiting and proceed to help them. This ensures that the elves are helped only when their number reaches three, and in the meantime, Santa attends to the requests of the reindeer. Similarly, when the reindeer go to the desired number, Santa is signaled, and the reindeer wait on a semaphore until Santa finishes processing their request. Overall, the code ensures that every thread has a fair chance to execute and does not get stuck waiting indefinitely. Therefore, it is considered starve-free & deadlock-free.
